this episode was sponsored by wigs
[Music]
the cetacean class is one of the most
powerful build types in the history of
the game some of the most broken
abilities and some of the most powerful
stats can be accessed by playing this
build when it comes to the marine server
sitations boasts some of the highest
intelligence and HP stats possible and
they're relatively new to the
competitive scene the story of
visitations rise to power is perhaps one
of the most unique stories in the entire
history of the game the cetacean build
began when some low-level mammal players
tried to create a mammalian version of
the crocodile build it didn't work very
well catching players on the shore and
because warm-blooded builds have a
higher food cost this was especially
problematic but this bit was
surprisingly effective at catching fish
in the water
due to their high aquatic agility and so
they basically just kept spending
evolution points buffing traits related
to hunting fish until eventually they'd
reallocated just about all of their
land-based ability skill points to
aquatic ones it wasn't long before the
seas were dominated by cetacean players
both of the smaller more agile variety
and of the new giant powerhouse variety
skipping forward to today we've got a
multitude of powerful cetacean builds
occupying different roles within the
meta so as always let's delve into the
different variations of the cetacean
class and rank them on a tier list now
I'm happy to say that I'm gonna have to
start pretty high up on the tier that's
when rating cetaceans there aren't any I
could even consider at or below average
all of them are at least B tier but yeah
starting in B tier we have the two
cetacean meals that are specifically
adapted to the Arctic server the beluga
and the Narwhal so the beluga and the
Narwhal both made sacrifices to mobility
in order to gain the cold resistance
perk that they needed in order to
survive the Arctic server on top of the
typical choice to put points into
blubber malukas and narwhals both also
opted to cut the dorsal fin perk which
lowers their overall agility in the
water what helps conserve heat both also
made significant sacrifices to their
vision but luckily for them cetaceans
have access to one of the most
overpowered abilities in the entire game
echolocation only a few classes have
unlocked disability cetaceans bats
shrews and a few
and it lets them entirely negate the
south' abilities of other players if
you're playing as a fish crustacean or
simplified and you hear this sound know
that you've been detected and will need
to either take cover or prepare to fight
this ability also helps them detect
locations where they can resurface to
breathe since a big danger of the whales
play style of living down under the ice
is being unable to find an opening in
the ice where they can come up for air
in the case of the narwhal their tusks
does grant them bonus damage and a
pretty powerful intimidation buff but
honestly they don't really need this
they're already quite well suited to
taking out fish players but the extra
attack range certainly doesn't hurt the
only reason I rate these bills is lower
than other citations is because the
other builds are more versatile in the
service that they can play on rather
than limiting themselves only to the
Arctic at the top end of beat here we
have the boat Oh a smaller cetacean
build specifically adapted for the
Amazon River this build is special
because it puts the maximum amount of
evolution points into the echolocation
skill along its snout our whiskers that
Buffy accuracy of echo locations target
locating effect this offsets the near
total blindness of the boat oh the boat
Oh doesn't really have a ton of
competition in its local meta so it's
tough to gauge its prowess in combat the
other top tiers of the region include
the Jaguar and the otter but neither of
them are big enough or mobile enough to
successfully bring down a boat oh it'd
be a lot easier to place them if they
had to contend with crocodiles and
sharks for control of the rivers but the
one thing that I can say is that one of
the cetaceans other big weaknesses is
particularly bad for the photo
cetaceans lack a sense of smell and this
leaves them particularly vulnerable to
pollution pollution is a big problem in
the Amazon and without the ability to
sense when the water around you is
contaminated the boat oh is at a pretty
high risk for being poisoned by the
waste generated by human players next on
the tier list is a group that I
personally really dislike for being kind
of lazy brain-dead characters that are
nonetheless extremely powerful I'm
talking about baleen whales such as the
blue whale and humpback whale baleen
whales are a variation of the cetacean
billed that arose when cetaceans first
really hit the big time reaching such a
massive size that size alone was the
only defense that they really needed and
so they kind of just took all the really
cool unique abilities of cetaceans
and said well why would I need that when
I can just be real big and so they opted
to sacrifice their equitation ability to
reach the maximum HP level attainable
they also traded their teeth for an
entirely new style of weapon called
baleen baleen doesn't do any damage in
combat except against players in the
micro weight class most of the time
larger bills don't bother griefing
players in the microwave ass simply
because they aren't worth the XP but
baleen is so efficient at catching krill
that whales can rack up an absurdly high
KD ratio enough to offset the low XP
value from each individual krill there's
something about the largest builds in
the game having a game plan centered
entirely around winning against the
smallest players in the game that
doesn't sit right with me
but I can't deny that baleen whales are
nearly invincible because of their size
and because of that they earn a pretty
easy a to your spot the only builds that
can pose a threat to them are humans and
the top contender on this list but this
isn't to say that you can't make the
Giants tile build work while still
retaining what makes the cetacean build
interesting the sperm whale retains all
the awesome cetacean abilities and has
some pretty powerful stats to back it up
and it uses them to fight against some
of the most powerful opponents in the
entire ocean sever the giant squid
sperm whales have mastered the giant
squid matchup and despite the squeeze
claws beak and superior mobility the
whale wins almost every time that's it
for a tear but we've still got the top
tier left first we've got the best
intelligence build in the entire ocean
serve the bottlenose dolphin they're by
far the most widespread and numerous
cetacean build and it's no surprise why
so many players chose the dolphin as
their main even though they didn't spec
into the baleen trade they can still
catch a huge amount of small fish by
using their intelligence and team
strategies to set traps meaning that a
coordinated assault by a group of
dolphin means can easily mean game over
for entire schools of fish dolphins have
great matchups against the other top
tiers of the ocean meta like the octopus
and shark their echolocation completely
negates the otherwise undetectable
stealth that octopi
in there shape-shift ability they're
pretty much defenseless once detective
as even their ink cloud ability doesn't
counter the dolphin sonar sharks are a
different story
sharks are perhaps the one built in the
game with an even more powerful sensory
ability than dolphins electroreception
allows them to sense any movement made
by a nearby player and works in a full
360-degree circle around them not just
directly in front like sonar does so
you'd think sharks would be a huge
problem for dolphin players and one on
one
they certainly are especially since
dolphins don't really have any powerful
offensive moves but because of the
Dolphins intelligence they know exactly
where to hit a shark in order to deal
maximum damage under the gills a few
good head bashes to the gills is it not
to turn the tide of battle pretty
quickly against them dolphins are even
good at messing with humans
something very few builds actually
succeed at but if you want to really be
able to bully humans you're gonna need
to play as the number one build on this
list which is coincidentally the number
two ranked build in the entire game
second only to humans themselves and
this is of course the Orca or cat mains
are the most disrespectful BM players in
the history of outside they're up throw
is second to none in terms of damage and
gives the victim plenty of time to
contemplate their poor character choice
orcas are also perhaps the best marine
build for dealing with platform campers
their high intelligence level enables
them to either bait and approach or if
that doesn't work they'll generate a
wave to knock their points off their
intelligence level is only a tiny bit
below the Dolphins but that's plenty
enough to give the Orca all the smarts
it needs to deal with the defensive
strategies of the likes of dolphins
seals and even other whales they've also
got enough smarts to know not to make
enemies with humans there have been no
fatal attacks on humans by wild Orca
mains now this isn't to say that they
don't mess with each other every so
often
orcas will divert the course of ships
humans will acidify the ocean you know
classic pranks but all in all the Orca
playerbase knows that the best way to
stay at number 2 on the tier list is not
to anchor the ridiculously LP human
player base so one question that I get a
lot is whether or not I think a cetacean
build could supplant humans and claim
the number one spot and unfortunately
I'm pretty sure the answer is No
cetaceans have the intelligence but I
can't see anything beating humans
without unlocking some of the higher
on the tech tree and unfortunately these
are basically unreachable without
control of fire and also eventually
control of electricity both of which are
pretty much impossible to unlock through
gameplay on the marine servers they'd
also need to put some points into Dex
theory so that they could actually use
tools this is also really difficult
because if they just traded their fins
for hands they'd lose too much mobility
to be able to catch fish they may not be
able to build their own civilizations
but they still might be able to build a
website using Wix because of how easy
they make the design process Wix is a
website that have it's so intuitive that
even me someone who has no experience
building a website was able to make a
fantastic looking page to showcase my
work I mean just take a look at some of
the stuff I was able to make here this
is pretty cool right I think it's pretty
cool they take care of all of the behind
the scenes stuff and do all the heavy
lifting for you leaving only the fun
creative part for you
they've got templates for just about
everything you could possibly need so
whether you want to build a website for
your business blog online store or
something else Wix is definitely the way
to go I actually had a ton of fun taking
around with all the options and I think
you will too so if you want to build a
professional-looking website head on
over to Wix comm slash go slash tear zoo
or click the link in the description to
get started thanks for watching and
thanks especially to my patrons on
patreon both for supporting me and for
suggesting this video I hope this video
will help you in your quest to succeed
in the game of life until next time good
luck out there
[Music]